---
title: DNF
url: DNF
comments: true
layout: post
categories: [blog]
tags: [triathlon, panic, dnf, athlone]
date: 09-07-2006
---
<p class="intro">DNF. The three most terrifying letters in any athlete's alphabet. Did not finish. If finishing in a good time is the goal of the elite athlete, finishing at all is the goal of the beginner like me.</p>
Yesterday, out of my depth in the murky waters of the Shannon I panicked. 100 metres into the swim my brain got the better of me and I just stopped. I couldn't breathe, and felt totally disoriented as the other competitors swam around me down the river. I waved at a marshall in a canoe who paddled over to me. I put my hand up on the hull and when I had caught my breath, I swam to the shore and handed in my chip; ending my race.

I'm philosophical about it today, but yesterday I was gutted - walking back to transition to pick up my gear as the others (many of whom were doing their first triathlon and were far more advanced in years than me) streamed out of the water onto their bikes and away down the road.

Today I'm disappointed in myself, but in a way yesterday just points me in a new direction and gives me a bit of a reality check. If I'm going to be ready to swim *twice* what I failed to swim yesterday then I have lot of work to do. I need to get used to the suit, to swimming out of my depth for long periods, and I need to stay positive when the nerves do kick in (as they will). Swimming in the pool is great, but bears little resemblance to open-water swimming - so as I train in the pool i need to be working on getting used to open water.

Well, there you go - a setback but a not the end of the world. Back to swimming on Tuesday, and hopefully (definitely) a sea swim some evening during the week. Just keep going, and put yesterday down to a bad day. Not much else I can do.

