---
title: 10 in 10 - Big Games
url: 10-in-10-big-games
comments: true
layout: post
categories: [blog]
tags: [itp, ideation, big games]
date: 10-12-2010
---
<p class="intro">I've just heard that I got into the Big Games class at ITP; which is exciting. I am going to spend the next 10 minutes funneling that excitement into 10 ideas I could explore in the class. Ready? Go!</p>

* **Point to point bike race across NY** - like an alleycat race but with more interesting tasks, maybe puzzles, and a better experience for spectators. GPS? Sure, why not.
* **Deception** - construct a fake identity, live the identity for a day, and receive deception points from a team of remote judges.
* **Everything About My Street **- N people take part in a challenge to gather as much information about the people and objects on their street or in their building in a fixed time period. Points awarded for depth, insight, emotional content, not just number of items.
* **Every Object** - N teams take part in a challenge to locate, tag and describe as many objects they can find in a city block in a fixed time period.
* **Agony** - N teams compete to offer creative solutions to the letters written to advice columnist in a newspaper. This is a terrible idea.
* **Swap** - N people start with one item, they have one hour to convert that object into other objects by swapping it with people they meet on the street. Points awarded for number of swaps, interesting items.

Time is up. 6 mostly terrible ideas. Interesting exercise though.



