---
layout: post
title: Last Accessed / Last Modified
category: Reading-Writing-Electronic-Text
comments: true
---

<script src="https://gist.github.com/1346759.js?file=Last%20Accessed%20Last%20Modified.txt"></script>

The specifications for the final in Reading & Writing Electronic Text were to perform a text generated by a Python program. My previous homeworks are not well suited to reading aloud, on these I focused mostly on structure and form and not readability.

_Last Accessed / Last Modified_ is an attempt at having a computer communicate its ability to perceive its surroundings with a human reader through a poem. So what is a poem to a computer? What methods in Python are 'poetic'? In my mind it's recursion and the `random()` function. In recursion there is refrain, the block of code runs over and over, but also there is self-reference, each time a recursive method runs its input is the previous run's output. As for randomness, every action a computer performs is specified by a human, thus the only real choice a computer has is what number to spit out when prompted with `random()`. Neither of these two methods make a computer truly expressive but until a computer becomes self aware I think these are good approximations.

With those methods chosen, what will the program write? Information about the Python file itself as well as the current state of the computer seemed an obvious first step. The poem begins with an introduction, chosen from a context free grammar like process though the words in use are chosen to always result in a similar attitude of greeting. The computer will tell the reader when the file was last accessed and how long the computer has been awake, as well as a 'guess' of sorts to how long the poem might be.

After the introduction, the computer chooses a candidate zip code from a text file and checks the candidate against a predefined zip code of the current location. If the two zips do not match a comment on the current weather at the proposed zip code is printed and the function runs again and again until the correct zip code is chosen. The time of sunset at the current location ends the poem.

_Last Accessed / Last Modified_ is all artifice. It is human written code crafted to create output to illicit a computer's poetics. That it is impossible to have a computer write its own poetry is a logical conclusion though in my mind does not detract from the poems this program creates.

[Download on Github](https://github.com/stevenklise/LastAccessedLastModified)