---
title: Ben Folds Five - The End of an Era
url: bff-31-10-2000
comments: false
layout: post
categories: [bff]
tags: []
date: 31-10-2000
---
Dear friends. The rumours are true....Ben Folds Five have amicably split up. Here's a word from Frank Maynard:

> About a month ago, Sony/550 was given notice that the band was very amicably splitting up. They had felt that they did just about everything they could do musically as a trio. Darren has been working on a solo career for a couple years now, as we know. Robert has been doing other side projects including the work he has done with Tom Maxwell, formerly of Squirrel Nut Zippers, and has built a studio at home. Ben is indeed recording in Australia and plans to release an album sometime in the future. Since Ben has been responsible for most of the writing anyway, I think we can expect the future material to be consistent with what the band has done in the past. Only the personnel will change. There will be much more, including an official statement, in the coming weeks and months.

So there you have it. I'll post the official announcement when it comes, but you can take this as written in stone. I've contacted the band's management for comment, and hopefully they'll get back to me or to the Armchair soon.

I don't know what more to say. I feel a bit numb. If you have any thoughts on this, or anything you'd like to say, mail me at paulmay@bigfoot.com or use the contact page

I'd like to thank Ben Folds, Darren Jessee and Robert Sledge for all the wonderful music, the amazing live performances and for being the greatest and nicest band I've had the pleasure to meet. I wish them all the very best luck in the future in whatever they choose to do.

I'll post more news as I get it.

Hmm...what now.